Blog: Part 3: Building an OEE Dashboard with FlowFuse (#3118)
FlowFuse/website: src/blog/2025/04/building-oee-dashboard-with-flowfuse-part-3.md

---
title: "Part 3: Building an OEE Dashboard with FlowFuse"
subtitle: Build a responsive OEE dashboard with real-time updates using FlowFuse.
description: Learn how to enhance your OEE dashboard with custom theming, responsive layout, real data integration, and multi-line scalability using FlowFuse.
date: 2025-04-14
authors: ["sumit-shinde"]
image: /blog/2025/04/images/building-oee-dashboard-part1.png
keywords: free oee dashboard, oee dashboard free, building oee dashboard, node-red oee dashboard, flowfuse oee dashboard
tags:
   - flowfuse
---

> In Part 2, we built the flow to calculate OEE for the production line using simulated production and downtime data and created a dashboard interface for visualization. However, we did not focus much on theme, layout, or styling.

Reviewer: Link?

> In Part 3, we will focus on improving the theme and design of the OEE dashboard. We will learn how to connect a real data source, adjust fields if your data structure differs, scale the dashboard for multiple production lines, and finally, explore how you can use it to take action based on insights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this final part, we will focus on improving the theme and design of the OEE dashboard. We will learn how to connect a real data source, adjust fields if your data structure differs, scale the dashboard for multiple production lines, and finally, explore how you can use it to take action based on insights.
```

> Let's get started!

Reviewer: Where's the fold?

### To update the dashboard theme in Node-RED Dashboard 2.0:

1. Open the Dashboard 2.0 sidebar from the Node-RED editor.
2. Switch to the Theme tab.
3. In the list of themes (you will likely see only the default one), click the settings (gear) icon next to it.
4. In the theme settings:
    - Set Charcoal Blue (#1A1C24) as the color for the header background, group background, and group outline.
    - Set Black (#000000) as the page background.
5. Click **Update** and **Deploy Changes**.

Your dashboard should display the updated dark theme with a clean, modern appearance and improved visual contrast.

However, additional adjustments are needed to fully align the visuals, specifically the chart grid lines and label text colors.

### To update these:

1. Double-click on a chart widget to open its configuration panel.
2. Scroll to the bottom of the chart config UI.
3. Uncheck the following options:
    - Use ChartJs Default Text Colors
    - Use ChartJs Default Grid Colors
4. Set the text color to `#FFFFFF` (white) and the grid line color to `#606060`.

> 5. Click **Done**, then **Deploy the changes**.

Reviewer: I get all this, but I think it's more valuable to explain how I can update the blueprint, or make a dashboard like this, where I get to pick the colors.

I wouldn't know how to pick the colors, what a good color would be for text, etc etc.

- **Accent Colors** — vibrant colors such as teal, orange, green, yellow, and blue are used across widget elements, including chart bars, line graphs, and indicators. These accents help differentiate data types and bring attention to key metrics.

But how do you come up with a dashboard design like this on your own? It starts with understanding why the theme matters. The design should reflect the context it is used in, the people interacting with it, and the mood it should convey. A dashboard on a factory floor may need to feel bold and focused, while one used by executives might aim for minimal and polished. A hospital system would need a tone that is calm, clean, and highly legible.

If you have a brand palette, that’s a great starting point. If not, choose colors that support the usability and tone of your dashboard. Our OEE dashboard, for instance, was designed for manufacturing teams who need to quickly read live data. The layout needed to be sharp, high-contrast, and low on visual noise—ideal for control rooms with limited lighting. The dark theme helps key data stand out while reducing eye strain over long periods of use.

> ### To update the dashboard theme in Node-RED Dashboard 2.0:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Modifying Theme
```
